well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so today we are going to talk about
civil dialogue
because i got two questions in the last
week that are very different
but they kind of have the same answer
one was from somebody else on youtube
and it was basically hey you know how do
you deal with
criticism and engage people who are
criticizing you in civil dialogue when
they don't seem to want it
and the other was from somebody on
twitter
is it possible to maintain civil
dialogue with a friend
baptist minister who told me i would be
judged for my vote
for my candidate because my candidate
supports choice
um for me there's
kind of a three-step screening process
to this
first is the person entitled
to dialogue stop there first okay
forget about the civil part are they
entitled to dialogue
did they come in good faith
or are they just there to criticize
and stir up drama and get clicks on
youtube
or to assert their moral authority
in in real life
is it uh is it
dialogue that's that's owed
you know if it's just some random person
on youtube you don't know
and doesn't impact you they're not owed
anything
if it's your friend who happens to be a
baptist minister well
maybe yeah okay the next part is
are they owed civil dialogue
because that's something entirely
different
not all ideas are owed civil dialogue
i can sit down and talk about
immigration policy something that is
near and dear to my heart
all day civilly until one of the
arguments
becomes this group of people is somehow
lesser well then they're not entitled to
civil dialogue anymore
there's a line where the idea becomes so
atrocious
that it's probably harmful
to entertain it civilly and to say
no now well let's talk about this no
there's nothing to discuss at that point
and then the third thing for me is is it
a productive use of time
now on youtube sometimes it can be
it can be um
i made a video about reparations once
and a descendant of a slave made one
critiquing it and it was basically like
hey this is where you're wrong
i wound up seeing it and sure enough you
know i
looked at what what he said and yeah go
figure the descendant of a slave had a
better grasp on reparations
than than the white guy i mean who could
have seen that coming
so i made a video back and then
he made one back to me
this probably didn't change anybody's
mind
but at the very least
people got to see a descendant of a
slave
talk to a guy who looks and sounds like
me
civilly and have the guy who looks and
sounds like me
actually listen that had value
that was a productive use of time
demonstrating that that conversation
could occur
so to me it was worth doing and
all of the arguments were in good faith
and presented well
you know sometimes you'll get
videos made that are really just there
to stir up trouble
to create drama in the hopes of drawing
people to
the other channel now
i mean if you want to engage you can but
you don't owe that person anything
somebody who comes in bad faith with
logical fallacies or is just there to
libel or slander or whatever you don't
owe them anything
they're not entitled to dialogue they're
not entitled to your time
they're certainly not entitled to civil
dialogue
now
to the guy with the minister friend
to me this isn't in good faith to be
completely honest
um i'm fairly certain
that this isn't doctrine but
he's your friend or she's your friend
and you want to
engage you you want to have this
conversation i mean it's possible to
have this civilly
i think the best route would be to say
okay my guy is bad in your eyes because
of
this sin that he
condones or whatever but if this is the
standard
and we get judged by voting for somebody
who
has sinned then baptists can't vote
because it is doctrine that everybody's
a center
and that everybody will soon
i i don't think that this was made in
good faith to be completely honest but
if it's your friend and you want to try
that's a route to go civilly with it but
then you have to ask that other question
is it going to be productive
are you going to be able to sway the
opinion of a baptist minister
probably not i mean i don't know the
person but
i've known a few baptist ministers in my
day and that's
probably not not something you're going
to be able to accomplish
um it's kind of like trying to uh
kind of like trying to reach the 80 year
old racist guy
he'd been here that long probably not
going to change
and is it really worth your time
is it a productive use of time so when
it comes to this question about civil
dialogue
first nobody's owed dialogue and if you
choose to have it
if the idea is atrocious they're not
entitled to civil dialogue
and engaging in civil dialogue with
ideas that are just
horrible may actually be bad because
you're helping to legitimize
and then is it a productive use of your
time
nobody is owed your time
now if you want to be civil with
somebody who is
kind of on the border with some
atrocious idea
sure but only because it's to your
strategic advantage
they're not owed that bad ideas aren't
owed a platform
i guess i mean that's really it and
that's really the only advice i have i
wanted to do this simply because
two came in so quickly together and it
seemed like
a topic maybe other people were we're
trying to deal with
especially coming up to the holidays
where
we're probably all going to be around
people who
may hold different ideas
i would run through that same thing are
they owed dialogue
are they civil dialogue and is it a good
use of your time
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day